Now that we learned a bit about how we can validate user input before handling it,
let's also work on the user experience side of things because right now when signing up for example,
let's say you enter an e-mail address and you enter a password but the passwords don't match or the e-mail
is already taken,
then we give you that error message which is great but of course all the input is lost and that is a
horrible user experience.
So typically we want to keep the input, we want to keep the data the user entered and that is exactly
what I want to work on next,
keeping that data around.
Now how can we do that?
Well for that, let's go to these controller actions where we do handle sign up and sign in
and let's maybe start with signing users in. There we do return this page when we enter incorrect data
and we send that status code, this error message.
By the way we should of course also do that for logging in
now that I see that I forgot that, status 422 should be added here too
but in the end what matters here is that we render that view and we include the error message
but of course to keep the data the user entered, we should send this data back as well.
So what we can do here is we can send maybe old input key here, whatever you want
and that could be an object and this object could hold the email and the password.
So I have two key value pairs here where I essentially store the email and the password which I retrieved
from the incoming request and I send that back to the page we render when we render it
due to this error so that I can render it on the page and output it there
because what this allows me to do is I can now go to my sign up page and by the way, I should also output
confirm password which you can retrieve from request body,
confirm password here in the sign up route,
so this is another field that we enter so we should return it.
And now when we have the invalid input, we get these values back in our view
and so now if I go to my signup.ejs file, we can basically output that data there.
So for example for the e-mail input, we can add the value attribute which html supports and we can output
our data there, so we can use this ejs syntax to pre-populate this with some data and the data here would
be old input.email.
If we do that and we save everything and I reload the sign up page,
I get an error though and the reason is that when I visit this for the first time through my get sign up action, I
don't render the old input,
so here when I render the sign up page I don't have old input,
so what I should do instead is there
we can also pass our data out with email being equal to an empty string,
the same for password and for confirm password, so that I enter empty values for these fields when we
load it for the first time and I enter the old input for the case that we have that validation error.
And with that if I now reload sign up, this works and if I now do enter something here which is incorrect
for some reason, then you see that it kept the old e-mail because we return that with the response
and we then output it in our view
and of course we should do the same for password and confirm password. So for password I output old
input.password and for confirm password,
it is old input.confirm password,
so I'm outputting that through ejs syntax. And therefore now when I enter something invalid again,
now we still get that error message but we kept our old data which is a much better user experience
of course.